hi i'm alex from e2 language it is 2020
and there have been some changes to the
IELTS listening test so in this video i
want to share with you those changes and
give you four tips for the IELTS
listening test
let's talk about the IELTS listening
changes in 2020 these changes came into
effect at the start of January and they
only apply to the paper delivered
version of the listening test however it
just means that now the computer
delivered test and the paper delivered
tests are more in line with each other
and there have been three changes the
first one is about the name of the
sections or the name of the parts what
were previously called sections are now
called parts so on this old practice
test notice it says section 1 in the new
test this will say part 1 so instead of
four sections the IELTS listening test
now has four parts the other change is
that there will be no reference to page
numbers so the audio will never say on
page three and the text won't say refer
to the questions on page four for
example and the final change is that
there will be no example question I
should clarify here you will still see
an example but you will not hear the
audio twice as you used to so on your
test paper you'll still see an example
question and an example answer but the
audio will only be played once this is a
small change but it is fairly important
because some of you may have used that
time to be reading ahead section one
section two sorry part one part two so
now just be aware that there's a little
bit less time for that pre reading test
day tips for IELTS listening I want to
share with you four test date tips for
IELTS listening and these tips apply
whether you're doing it on the computer
or on paper tip 1 read ahead
during the test computer and paper
delivered you get lots of little breaks
so often the audio will say now I'll
take 30 seconds to check your answers or
now look at questions 5 to 10 for
example whenever you have a break 30
seconds or one minute don't go backwards
don't go and check your answers they're
finished it's over look ahead so always
try to read ahead the more you can read
the better prepared you'll be so tip 1
read ahead look forward don't look back
tip 2 highlight if you are doing the
computer-delivered test there's this
great little highlight functions so as
you're reading you can highlight on the
screen the key words or the words that
you think are important if you're doing
the paper deliver test depending on your
test center you'll have a pen or a
pencil and you should use that to
underline or circle or draw stars or
whatever next to the questions as you
read them try to keep those key words in
your mind writing on your paper and
highlighting also just helps to keep
your brain active so that you're not
just sitting there staring at question 1
and waiting so tip to highlight tip 3
don't leave empty answers if you leave
an empty answer in IELTS listening
you'll get 0 for that question
there's no danger in having a guess so
if you have no idea what the blank
should be or whether it's a B or C just
have a wild guess it's better to guess
then leave it empty tip 4 concentrates
so how do you focus during the test well
sit up straight
take some deep breaths maybe have
stretch try and get that oxygen up to
your brain where it's needed someone
once told me and also tap yourself on
the head and I find that quite effective
as well before your test building up
your stamina when it comes to
concentration is also a really important
thing to work on we live in a world full
of distractions you know York
peuta your phone your friends your
workmates everywhere you go your mind is
distracted we're losing that art of
complete concentration and focus how do
you do it how do you build up
concentration stamina that is the topic
for another video but for now perhaps
you can share with me in the chat box
below what do you do to maintain
concentration when preparing for your
test if you want some help preparing for
your test come along and study with us
it's much more fun than studying all by
yourself we have daily live classes with
a teacher leading the way we have heaps
of self access material feedback
tutorials and lots more we are here to
help you pass this test don't forget to
Like subscribe and share this video and
we'll see you soon at e2 language calm
[Music]